Let's get back to where we where we want to start actually writing our code keeping in mind that the
more you prepare and understand what you need to code the better the white board will go.
So never start a white board interview not being sure of how things are going to work out.
So we've talked it out.
We have a plan in mind.
Let's start to code this.
Let's do the first loop over here.
That is we want to loop through the first array and let's remove this code just so it's a little bit
cleaner.
We want to loop through the first array create an object where properties are going to match the items
in the array.
I'm going to create an object let's just call this map
and this map we've created a but we want to loop through our array.
So to say let I.
He calls 0 and we've done this before.
Is the less said array dot or array one dot length.
We're going to increment by now within here.
We're first going to say if there is no property so we want to check whether a map dot A exists mapped
Part B exists map Dotsie exists map.
X exists.
So if that doesn't exist in Javascript you can just use this syntax we can say if no map apply.
So again if map I which the first time around is going to be a.
So if map dot A is the opposite.
So this exclamation mark javascript's means the opposite if map a exists.
It's going to return true if it doesn't exist.
It's going to say false.
So this is this might be a little bit confusing.
But we want to say if this doesn't exist in that case we want to do something.
Now the way if statements work in Javascript it needs to be true in order to execute whatever is in
here.
So we add the exclamation mark here to turn false into true.
I know that can be a little bit confusing.
You can read up on it.
But essentially what we're doing is we're just checking for the property if it exists or not.
If it doesn't exist then we're going to add it.
So I'm going to say Konst item equals array 1 I.
So that is a and this item is going to have a map item equal to true.
What do we just do here.
What we said if map a doesn't exist in that case let's make array one I which is a equal to item so
map item is going to equal to 2.
All we're saying is map a.
In this case equal to true.
So by the end of this we're going to have an object that is going to have a property a true and we're
going to keep looping through it until we have an object called map that has all these items.
Map a map b maps c map X equals to true all right it looks like we're able to achieve this and we can
just console's our law here just to check what we have.
I'm going to say Konsole dialogue map.
If I run this function let's do contains a common item to array one array to and let's minimize this
a little bit.
We can see and if I run this oh I'm going to make sure I spell that right array too.
Let's run.
We see that we have a true true C true X true.
Awesome.
So now we have that working.
Let's go through the second step and actually I just noticed that this the way it is right now is checking
I which is 0 1 2 3.
But instead we want to check a b c at X..
So instead of I here it should be array 1 rack and notation I.
So that is a b c x has the property of the map.
Lots of brackets here but I hope that makes sense.
So if I run this we should still get the same answer.
Perfect.
Now let's look at the second part here.
Want to loop through the second array and check if the item in the second array exists on the created
object.
This should be fairly simple.
All we need to do and let's remove the console dialog map here.
All we need to do is to loop over the second array.
Let J equals zero.
J should be less than a two dot length.
And then we're going to increment J.
And all we're going to say is if MAP What do we want to check.
What we want to check if it contains the first item in the second array that is Z as part of its properties.
Remember our map object contains these properties.
So all we're going to say is we're going to check the array to.
And we're going to check the J index.
So the first index 0 over 80 is going to be easy.
Then why then a.
And if that's true if it does contain those things because remember when we evaluate this is going to
return true if it exists.
If now we're just going to get undefined.
We're going to say return true otherwise.
At the very end we can just say return false.
Let's see if this actually works Vonta just click on
and I get through OK.
So I see that a in a match what if I change this to something that doesn't exist like our lake Ron.
I get false.
What if I change this to see I get true if I get this to X I get true if I change this to W. I get false
awesome.
So we've just coded something new a new function that if we look at makes things possibly better.
Right.
Because we have two four loops one after another which is always a plus b versus before where we had
nested for those switches.
Oh a temp's be at this point we can tell the interviewer if the arrays are substantially large and we
can get really large arrays then this solution when it comes to time complexity
is better.
How cool is that.
Now let's go through the next steps because we're not actually done yet.
Let's make this a little bit bigger.
Number 11 is think about airchecks and how you can break this code.
Never makes assumptions about the input.
Assume people are trying to break your code and that Darth Vader is using your function.
How will you safeguard it so always check for false inputs.
They don't want but essentially I now look at this code and say How can I break this.
Well let's think this through.
If I go through this code and let's say what if I have to Asier and I run.
Does this still work OK.
What if I have a.
And here what happens.
All right I see I get true that's good.
But what if I have a number here instead of a string.
We just assume that the arrays going to contain strings I get false.
Ok what if I do one here.
I'll get through OK so that works.
What if I do an empty array here
I get false but if I do another array here OK I get true
what if I do know here and javascript which is a little tricky OK I get false.
What if I do know get true OK that works free go back to what we had before.
We want to now tell the interviewer how we might be able to break this code.
For example what if we don't receive a rate.
What if this function is called with just one array.
What happens.
Oh we get an there we want to start thinking about how errors might arise.
We want to make these functions as error free as possible.
And during an intro we usually won't have time to do all the checks that you want but you might want
to tell the interviewer a possible solutions are possible ways to go around this.
Such as.
Can we assume always two parameters in the function is what happens if in the second parameter I I-PASS
0 OK.
I still get false.
What if I pass.
No I get an error that says I can't read lenth of no.
So you want to start thinking about and maybe discussing with the interviewer how you may break this
function and how you may improve it such as doing checks such as if statements to make sure that what
the inputs you're getting are what you are expecting.
Now this is when testing comes in and testing your code comes in during most interview.
That's usually beyond the scope of the interview and it's you have limited time so you can do this.
But it's good to tell the interviewer what you would do.
This is one of those things that it's simple enough.
They can just tell the interviewer.
This is why you would do versus coding it and they will essentially give you full marks for it.
Let's look at the next step.
Don't use bad confusing names like i and j.
Go write code that reads well.
Now when I look at this function it's OK.
Now I say don't use variables like i and j and although aren't using i and j.
Exactly here.
This is being used for for loops and for loops using I hear is OK because it is a bit of a standard
especially in javascript and these are just simply indexes but perhaps if these parameters had meanings
such as maybe this was the user array and this was the items array naming these as more useful more
meaningful variables or parameters might be better.
Maybe this map variable can be called tally or something more meaningful specific for the code.
Again this is one of those things that you can talk to the interviewer about and let them know that
you're thinking about these things and that's very very important.
Again as long as you're thinking about him and you're telling the interviewer that you're considering
the sink's you're getting full marks for it.
Keep going.
Test your code checks for no Paramo zero undefined no massive arrays.
Async code.
So on and so forth.
And we kind of cover this in the previous step but you want to just check with an interviewer that we're
making some assumptions here but let them know that you're thinking about and you're thinking about
the fact that this function might not always be run with to a race.
How can we test this function and how would you test this function to make sure that it gives the expected
result that we always return true or false.
And this is where you might say that you're going to test your code and run some unit tests.
Finally even though I say finally here there is another point.
But finally talk to the interviewer where you would improve the code.
Does it work.
Are there different approaches.
Is it readable.
What would you do or what would you Google to improve.
How can performance be improved.
Well looking at this code I can start telling the interviewer that OK.
The downside to this solution is that well only numbers and strings and booleans can be used correctly
because we're using an object especially in javascript and adding properties.
A B C next to this object.
Now object properties especially the way we're using a javascript object Saray now might not work if
we're using non literal values.
Maybe not strength's maybe a javascript expression and you might also argue that this code could be
a little bit more readable for example although this code is better in terms of time complexity when
it comes to javascript.
There's actually a more readable cleaner way of doing this.
Let me show you this is something that is language specific.
That means depending on how much you know about the language that you're working with you might be able
to use methods to simplify this process so you can tell the interviewer.
I would Google specific methods on let's say a race to see if I can just clean up the code and make
it readable.
For example I can do this exact same function.
And we'll call it contains common item 3.
That takes an array 1 array to and in one line I can just return
array one got some which is a new feature.
I think sex with javascript and I can say item using error functions which come with the six and I can
say loop through array to dot includes and check if it includes the item looks at that item.
Now what do we just do here.
Well we're using some built in javascript methods to do essentially what we've done above which is check
the first array iterate through each item in the array and if some of them include the items in our
array to just return true or false if we actually check this
with our array.
And I run this and let's comment out the first one.
If I hit play here I've got to make sure that this includes not include I get false because our array
doesn't have any matches.
If it does have a name match I get to look at that.
I just create a nice little function using javascript here.
How cool is that.
This is what we talk about when we say there's different solutions to a problem.
We now have a way to measure different solutions to a problem.
We can say that there's actually another solution using some of the built in methods that comes with
javascript that is some would say more readable more concise.
If you're working on a team that really knows their javascript this is a lot easier to read than this.
Right.
So maybe readability is more important.
You might say that this is a better solution.
Another thing you may have noticed is that we've talked about time complexity here.
And we haven't really talked about space complexity and this goes into a final point.
If your interviewer is happy with your solution the interviewer usually answers here.
It is also common though that the interviewer asks you extending question such as How would you handle
a problem if the whole input is too large to fit into memory Well if we talk about space complexity
here we can see that in the first solution that we had.
Let me comment this out.
We have space complexity of
one
because we're not creating any new variables.
We're just using the inputs arrays.
Technically additional space complexity for our function is a one.
It's constant.
But if we scroll down to this one well we're creating a new object here and we're adding the first array
into an object which takes up memory.
So this solution actually has space complexity of OK which is the first ray space complexity.
So if an interviewer says if there's limited memory or memory is expensive.
You can just tell him or her.
While this solution although faster in terms of time complexity is more happy in terms of speed complexity
this point here that we forgot to mention is something that again is really good to mention during your
interview modularize your code from the very beginning.
Break up your code into beautiful small pieces and add just comments if you need to.
What does that mean.
Well we have the solution over here that we've worked on and we've committed to do that.
We've modularize saying that this first block of code is going to do something then this block of code
is going to do something else.
But as code gets more and more complex it becomes increasingly important to write in a modular way that
is small bits and pieces that read like English you see long really hard to read code costs companies
a lot of money because it's not just you working on a codebase.
It's most likely tens or hundreds if not thousands of developers and engineers so companies want to
hire somebody that is able to write clean code that is readable that is easy for anyone to pick up and
code along with.
For example here what we might want to do is actually separate these out into different functions maybe
creating a function in here that perhaps says map array to object that receives in the first Saray ITA
and then maybe here a nother function to the outside world that says compare array to object.
Now you don't really have to do this during an interview but it's good to mention it and talk about
the idea of modularize in your code.
If a function is doing too many things that's not ideal.
When we say modular we want to build SMALLPEICE the code that do one thing and one thing really well
ideally a function takes an input and returns an output and inside of that block does just one thing
if it has to do any extra actions.
Well perhaps you have a function that lives on the outside world and this function also does one thing
really well and this creates really testable clean code that is modular.
Again something that is really good to mention and talk about in your interview.
All right.
I know this is a lot and it's a lot to think about because you start thinking am I going to have to
worry about each code that are right and analyze it this deeply.
No.
In your day to day life you're not going to do that.
But I wanted to demonstrate to you that this is the kind of thought process that really good developers
have and what companies are interviewing for.
If you're able to think clearly through these steps like I have outlined for you and you're able to
solve problems this way you see how much more impressive it is than if I just wrote down this solution
without any explanation.
Even if you don't get to this part and time runs out during your interview you've demonstrated to your
interviewer that you're able to think clearly you have the fundamentals to think like an engineer.
And these are great qualities that companies love to hire for and skills that are very rare.
I hope you had fun with this exercise.
You might have to come back to these videos later on.
But for now I'll see in the next one Buh-Bye.